# Coolify Usage with Next.js for Deployment and Hosting of AI Tour Stamp Rally App - Observations and Documentation:

###### By S. Gabriel Alwin Varun, Intern at C1Exchange

## Introduction

- ### What is Coolify?
  Coolify is a software that makes self-hosting simple and powerful. It lets you run your applications, databases, and services on your own server, whether that’s an old laptop, a Raspberry Pi, or a rented server from any Third party Provider.

- ### Why Coolify?
  Coolify is an open source, safe and self hostable alternative to Vercel and Heroku. It supports both Cloud and Self Hosting Deployment. It's a one time setup on your server, which progressively allows you to add resources to it such as Applications, Databases and other Services which might support your Application.

## Installation Guide

For Self Hosting of Applications, Coolify can be Installed via the Command Line Shell (Terminal) as follows:

> ###### Note: Coolify only supports the following OS Distros and Architectures:

- **Coolify supports several Linux distributions:**
  - Debian-based (e.g., Debian, Ubuntu)
  - Redhat-based (e.g., CentOS, Fedora, Redhat, AlmaLinux, Rocky, Asahi)
  - SUSE-based (e.g., SLES, SUSE, openSUSE)
  - Arch Linux
  - Alpine Linux
  - Raspberry Pi OS 64-bit (Raspbian)

- **Supported Architecture**  
  Coolify runs on 64-bit systems:
  - AMD64
  - ARM64

### Server and System Requirements:

1. **Server Requirements:**  
   You need a server with SSH access. This could be:  
   > A VPS (Virtual Private Server)  
   > A Dedicated Server  
   > A Virtual Machine (VM)  
   > A Raspberry Pi  
   Or any other server with SSH access (Linux Based)

2. **Hardware Requirements:**  
   Your server should have at least:  
   > CPU: 2 cores  
   > Memory (RAM): 2 GB  
   > Storage: 30 GB of free space

### Installation Process:

> ⚡️ Quick Installation (recommended):

```bash
curl -fsSL https://cdn.coollabs.io/coolify/install.sh | sudo bash
```

Run this script in your terminal, and Coolify will be installed automatically.  
***Note:*** Coolify Installs Docker by Default during Setup, so no need to Install Docker Seperately.

Coolify Generally runs in the Port 8000 of your localhost in a similar manner to Jenkins, where you are required to set up the credentials during your first login to its console. But, Unlike Jenkins the credentials are not generated by the system, rather the user is required to set the Username and Password.

## The Process: From Initial Approaches to Deploying the Stamp Rally App:

### 1. Github Actions:

GitHub Actions is a continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) platform that allows you to automate your build, test, and deployment pipeline. You can create workflows that build and test every pull request to your repository, or deploy merged pull requests to production.

The approach followed for Stamp Rally Deployment Via Github Actions was Designing the CI/CD pipeline using a Workflow syntax followed by Github Actions in a `workflow.yaml` file in a multi-stage manner.

On a High level, Github Actions Workflows are defined in a both Multi stage and Nestable YAML format. Typically consisting of,

1. **Jobs** - A Job is like a collection of workflow stages that run on the same runner. Each step can either be a shell script or an action that will be executed. All the steps are carried out in a sequential manner and are interdependent.

2. **Events** - Events are the states or activities at which the workflows will be triggered.

3. **Actions** - An action is a GitHub Actions platform-specific custom program that performs a sophisticated but regularly performed job. Use action to help you write less repeated code in your workflow files.

4. **Runners** - In simple terms, runners are the servers that execute the workflows built by you. Runners are typically provided and managed by Github Itself. But you can customize the type of runner which you want to use for execution of your workflows.

More Details about Github Actions Workflows are given [here](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/about-github-actions/understanding-github-actions#workflows).

#### Why Github Actions Didn't Work out for this project?

Since Github Actions Workflows are executed by external runners provided by github, there were requirements to SSH into Production and Development VMs for the CI/CD pipeline execution. But this SSH Authentication is done from the Runner itself which is an external VM which uses an IP from the Github IP Address CIDR as given [here](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/about-githubs-ip-addresses).

Due to high security requirements this was out of the question for providing access for an external agent to SSH into the Mission critical Application VMs.

### 2. Enter: Coolify!

As we have discussed so far, Coolify is an awesome open source Self hosting software for Deploying an Application. But how did we end up using it ?

As soon as it was realized that Github Actions wasn't going to help with the deployment in this case. Other Alternatives were considered such as **Jenkins**, but since this was not that large in scale of an Application, A new and bold move was to venture into Coolify!

#### Approaches after Coolify was Set up:

1. **Repository Integration**

   **A. Githup App Authentication for private repositories**  
   > This required the application to be registered as a Github App so that it could be accessed by Coolify.
   > This wasn't suitable in terms of privacy so the approach was quickly abandoned.

   **B. Github Authentication using Deploy Keys for Private Repositories**  
   > This was a Safer approach where coolify generates a key under its `keys & tokens` section which was then  
   > added as a "**Deploy key**" to the `Deploy Keys` section, typically found in the settings of a private repository.
   > This Deploy key authenticated the pulling of code from the Github Repository for the specified branch everytime  
   > a deployment is triggered. The above approach was suitable as per requirements and was thus adopted.

2. **Application Buildpacks**

   **A. Nixpacks for Next.js**  
   > Nixpacks takes a source directory and produces an OCI compliant image that can be deployed anywhere.
   > The project was started by Railway and is open source on GitHub.
   > Coolify uses Nixpacks as build pack by default. Nixpacks detect what kind of application are you trying to deploy and builds it accordingly.
   > But if needed, you can customize it by adding a `nixpacks.toml` file to your repository or setting the right environment variables.

   This was very suitable for a single server deployment, but when it came to a case where a Multi-server deployment from a single point was required, Nixpacks couldn't be used.

   **B. Dockerfile based Deployment**  
   > A Dockerfile is used by Docker to build an Image from the Instructions provided in it.
   > A Docker image is a lightweight, standalone, executable package of software that includes everything needed to run an application(code, runtime, system tools, system libraries, and settings). It's essentially a blueprint or template used to create Docker containers. On The other hand, A container is a running instance of an image.
   > Dockerfile based build packs are useful if you have a custom dockerfile inside your Git repository.

   This Dockerfile based build method was suitable for Multi-server App Deployment from a single point due to the usage of a Central **Docker Registry** (A Repository for storing Docker Images) from which multiple servers (VMs) can pull images to build a container and run the application individually.

<br/><br>
> 🐋 **Why Docker and What is Docker?**  
Docker is an open-source platform that allows developers to package applications and their dependencies into containers, enabling consistent execution across different environments. This simplifies deployment, scaling, and management of applications.

3. **Automated CI/CD Build and Deploy**

   > The Github Apps method automatically provides support for Automated deployments on various events on the Source Repository (Push events or Pull Requests).
   > However, Since Github Apps wasn't an option, an other alternative would be to set up Automated Deployments using **Github Webhooks.**
   > A Github webhook is a mechanism that allows Github to notify external services when specific events occur in a repository,such as a code push or a pull request, enabling real-time automation and integration. ( It's sort of like a pub sub for polling events)
   > You can add a custom webhook URL provided by Coolify to your GitHub repository to trigger a new deployment when you push to your repository.

4. **Security of Coolify Controller and Dashboard:**

   > The Coolify Dashboard Requires the DevOps Admin (or) Super-User to set up a username and password during setup. These credentials protect the Coolify DevOps Dashboard.
   > Apart from these default measures, this Machine in which coolify was running on wasn't used to host the application, rather It acted as a Master Controller for other hosting VMs. (Production Servers)
   > This also meant the "Master Controller" had its local Docker Registry where Coolify's Built Images of the app are stored after each new Build Trigger completes. This Docker registry was accessed by the other Production Hosting Servers via Private Network (Also known as Subnets of A Virtual Private Cloud - VPC) by adding the Master Controller's Registry as an Insecure Docker Registry.

5. **Environment Variables Setup and Safety**

   > We already saw that coolify provides a `keys and tokens` section to store sensitive Keys or credentials.
   > Apart from this, Project level, Team level and Environment level (Staging/Production) variables can be stored and used by the required applications.

6. **Other Facilities**

   > Other than what we've used here coolify provides a lot of easy-to-setup and configure Applications, Databases and Services.
   > Also, Application Runtime logs could be viewed via the "logs" panel on the Application Page.
   > Some of them include MongoDB, MySQL, PostrgreSQL and even Jenkins itself is hostable via Coolify, pretty "Cool" right?

## Conclusion:

Thus Eventhough Coolify being a newly developed Software for CI/CD and DevOps, It's Simple yet highly functional Nature made it a huge success for this use case!

































